---
layout: post
title: "Secure Data Exchange Using Distributed Ledger Technologies"
author: "Matthias"
date: 2019-11-04 15:00:00 +0100
background: '/assets/images/uzh.jpg'
---

Secure data exchange and integration is essential in medical informatics as it
enables and accalerates evidence based medicine. Therefore we are very
interested in related topics. Last October we invited Lucas Antelo as an exteral
speaker. During his talk he presented the outcome of his bachelor thesis "Secure
Data Exchange Using Distributed Ledger Technologies".

Lucas studied medicine at University Hospital Zuich followed by a computer
science degree at Freie Universit&auml;t Berlin. 

In the German healthcare sector, data are exchanged among patients, healthcare
service providers and facilities, insurance companies as well as private and
public institutions for services, research and billing. For the majority of
these interactions, paper remains the de facto standard and costs all
participants time, resources and money. Today, people are mobile and move more
frequently from one city to another, where they usually seek healthcare related
services. Patients and healthcare service providers possess a fragmented medical
history, which is spread among many different locations. Consequently,
healthcare service providers encounter difficulties concerning how to deliver
the best possible treatment based on the incomplete information provided by the
client during each visit. This impedes the healthcare system ability to be
efficient and cost effective. Distributed ledger technologies (DLT) promise to
solve this problem and consequently reduce time, resources and energy for the
exchange of data. In recent years, new DLT solutions emerged that suit specific
business use cases such as finance, supply chains and healthcare, which
facilitate the adoption of this novel technology. In this thesis, the respective
laws, regulations, data and processes in the healthcare industry are analyzed.
In addition, a requirement analysis based on interviews with a health insurance
company, two clients and two healthcare service providers are performed to build
the foundation for the study of suitable DLT solutions in the healthcare
industry. The thesis concludes that Hyperledger Fabric (HLF), with its modular
architecture, fulfills the majority of the requirements as well as laws and
regulations. This shows that HLF solves inherent problems found in the healthcare
industry. This technology implements access control lists for data access,
transactions, and moreover, allows the creation of software programs, known as
chaincode, to automate secure data exchange procedures. This thesis results in
the creation of a blueprint and a prototype as a data exchange grid for the
healthcare industry. The prototype uses a three-tier software architecture with
HLF as the main data layer and a modular web application as the logic layer
using NodeJS.

You can find the full thesis here: [Secure Data Exchange Using Distributed Ledger Technologies](https://github.com/basacul/Mana/raw/master/documents/Bachelor_Thesis_Final_Version.pdf){:target="blank"}

<img  class="img-fluid"
      src="/assets/images/2019-11-05_Lucas-Antelo.png"
      alt="Lucas Antelo">{: .align-center}
<span class="caption text-muted">Computer scientist and physician Lucas Antelo
gave a talk about "Secure Data Exchange Using Distributed Ledger Technologies"
in our group.</span>
